# About A-Rod

## Personal
Love my family and making them better each day!

## Professional
In the past 30 years, the availability of genetic data has seen exponential increase owing to the improvements in the sequencing technology and the lowering of the cost of sequencing. As the  data volumes increase, the need for high performance computers and software that matches the latest infrastructure demands attention from scientists to perform analysis at a population-wise or inter-disease level. 
Throughout my career at the University of Chicago and Argonne National Laboratory my focus has been about increasing the speed of analysis for biomedical data at a high level by leveraging the power of high performance computers (HPC), utilizing GPUs and improving the software with AI and machine learning methods. My goal has been to make genetic sequence analysis available and doable for the community at large by taking advantage of the latest computational infrastructures and software available in the community. The analysis workflows I generated have taken a look at the genetics at a disease specific level. I have been able to make workflows to improve the speed to call an individual’s variants with high-confidence through the use of cloud infrastructure. 
During this time, the different types of biomedical sequence (i.e. RNA-seq, Whole-genome, microarray , methylated, imaging) and EHR data has been more available but there are few tools that are able to look at the data at a systems level interactively. I have been part of key collaborations with institutions that have access to the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Million Veteran Program (MVP), United Kingdom Biobank (UKBB), FinnGen, UPan data which are allowing me to perform analysis at a population-wide level. 
The explosion of multi-omics data requires the need for tools that take advantage of modern infrastructure and use machine learning methods so we can take a look at populations and diseases at the macro-level. In other words, at a level in which we can compare populations and diseases with one another taking into account the multi-omics data as a whole. Through the use of AI and HPC I want to automate and speed the analysis and make tools available for people without access to exascale computing knowledge. Additionally, through collaborations I intend to make the processed data public and available for people to perform more analysis and open the door to others who want to advance the biomedical field at a macro level as well as working with communities with less access to HPC and biomedical workflows (i.e. Africa, Latin America) and improve their ability to make their own studies and analysis.

## Other
Avid tinker
